
Welcome to the Heaven7 mudlib.

Please visit www.heaven7mud.org for support.

This version of the mudlib works with the LDMud driver
only. It does not support amylaar, MudOS, nor anything
in between.

This lib can be run on any platform that supports the
LDMud driver. It has been tested on Unix, Linux and
Windows 2k and XP.

You should start by logging in as the 'admin' user. The
initial password for this user is 'admin7'. CHANGE THE
PASSWORD asap.

The following are installation and usage notes for Unix
and Windows sytems.

UNIX/LINUX INSTALLATION

Download the latest 'current' LDMud driver. This mudlib
includes the settings file necessary for the mudlib to 
work with LDMud. You can change the settings as you see
fit (such as the port number and prefix directory)

IMPORTANT!!! You MUST compile your LDMud driver using the
settings file included with this mudlib!!

Configure the driver using the /secure/h7_settings file from
the mudlib. You should copy this file to the LDMud src/settings
directory. See the INSTALL note that comes with LDMud.

Once you have compiled the driver and utilities, you can
Execute the driver with:
./ldmud --debug-file log/debug <port_number> &

WINDOWS INSTALLATION

You can download a version of LDMud that works with Windows
in the downloads section of www.heaven7mud.org. Refer to the 
README.txt file included in the download. That driver has
already been compiled with the correct settings so the key
is to extract the LDMud driver files and the mudlib files
in the right places. Once that is done you can execute the
heaven7.bat file and you're good to go.

Thanks for using Heaven7 and please give us feedback in the
form of enhancement request and defects on our website.

-the h7 team

FIXES for Alpha 2
1. README file now gives the correct location of the h7_settings
file

2. The missing help files have been included. If the help command
gives you a message "Help file corrupt" then you've got DOS line
endings in your file somehow. 

3. Included a new command, dos2unix, which will fix line endings
in your files should you manage to get nasty dos line endings in 
them. NOTE: This command will fail on very large files, in which
case you should use this perl command to fix the files:
perl -pi -e 's/\r\n/\n/;' bigfile.c			

4. Fixed the find_player() simul efun

5. The promote command accepts both level names and numbers

6. Drop, Get, Take all work as expected. By default they use
parse_command to do the job. 

7. Added the ability to disable the use of parse_command in
your command files, and instead use the legacy version of those
commands. Either should work equally well so it's more a matter
of whether you want to use parse_command or not. Should you
decide to disable parse_command, then your commands will still
work. To make the setting, edit /include/config.h in the mudlib
and change USE_PARSE_COMMAND to 0.

8. The help tool includes a new command to remove an entire 
category and all the help topics in that category. Created this
so it was easier to remove all the old driver efun docs.
