The HISTORY OF MAGIA

 AGE OF CREATION
	The events of these first few ages are not dated to a 
	specific year, or even century. It is probable that the 
	measuring of time is at a scale incomprehensible to man.
	- Greystaffe

The All-God creates the Mutliverse, and all within it; other 
worlds, other dimensions, and His Children. Darkness, Baalzebul,
Gruumish, and other evil Children of the All-God are banished as
they rebel against His word. Thoth, Taalandrix are also banished
from Light and find a place created long ago by the All-God in 
which to dwell.The All-God creates Magia and all the living things
upon it, including magic and power. The first race to walk on  
Magia, man, is created by the Father in His image.


AGE OF MAN
	Man lives in harmony with his Father and the environment, 
but some are then persuaded by the Children to follow their chosen
paths: evil and neutral. The Father's sorrow is so great that the 
oceans form; his anger so fierce that his fists form mountains and
valleys.


AGE OF CHAOS
	The Children begin to fight amongst themselves, blaming 
each other for the wrath of their Father, and the plight of mankind.
Moradin's forge creates the dwarvish races. Antaaries' tears form 
the elves, and Taalandrix turns dwarves into gnome and halflings 
(including Kender). Gruumish turns humans into the strong Ogre races,
which in turn become as evil as their leaders.


AGE OF LAW
	The Father calls all His creation to stand in judgement 
before him. He grants places on Magia for His children's creations,
except for those evil ones who must use their evilness to take what
they can from the others. 
	The Laws of the Universe are set in motion by the All-God. 
These govern life, death, magic and power, as regards mortals, and 
immortals. Thoth becomes the guardian of these Tomes of Knowledge, 
numbering three in all.


AGE OF DREAMS
	Antaaries leads the elves to their homeland; a Forest of 
Visions around which they build a grand city, which is named Entannax.
Antaaries and her consort Lolth show their first signs of disagreement
in the lives of the elves.

	Human kind begin their worship of the All-God. The first Temple
is established on Phoenix Island by the Twelve, who were His first 
disciples and priests. As each takes a turn in presiding over the 
priestly court, their names become the 12 months of the Magian calendar. 
	Tannri' begin their assault upon mankind to holt man's worship. 
In response the sage-monk, Galadier, creates a magical barrier known as 
the Gates of Hell in order to keep Darkness and his followers banished 
to the Hells.
	The Ancient Wars against the Shadow Lords begins. Bahamut 
rallies to the aid of holy knights of the All-God. 
	Acipter, the Irda Lord, leads the Irda race to their new home.
	The elven civil wars begin. In response, the Grugach flee 
Entannax and spread throughout the Middle Realms; the wood elves flee 
into the Forest of Visions; the high and grey elves remain to ward off 
the dark elves. The Knights of Entannax are formed by a high elf, 
Koiath'laah, to defend their home against the dark elves. Slowly the 
drow are defeated, and Lolth flees with her faithful into the depths 
of Underdark.
	Asmodel, one of the Twelve, turns from his faith and serves 
Baalzebul, who soon takes him into the Hells as his servitor. His 
name becomes Asmodeus.
	The War of the Shadows ends in victory for the allies of the 
All-God. Bahamut ascends as deity of good dragons. 


THE AGE OF SEARCHING 
	* circa 100. The high elves, under leadership of Crionathlan, 
	forge a new city in the Southern Realms called Phalex. 
	The grey elf general, Goldania Llore, is declared ruler and 
	queen of Entannax.
	* circa 350  Kender have spread to the ends of Magia.
	* circa 450 The Irda who did not make it to the homeland begin 
	to hear the call of their ancestors and search for a way home.
	The drow explore the Underdark and establish Menzoberranzan .
	* circa 500 Tales of Dragons come to the ears of man.
	* 780 The minotaurs declare war on the dwarvish kingdom of 
	Tho-Lakha', finally defeating them 20 years later. The minotaurs
	slay the dwarves and rename their city Talados.


THE FIRST AGE OF MAGIC 
	* circa 1 Triaan Llore forges the sword Aelbyion. 
	* 90 Triaan discovers the Laws of True-Magic, scribed in the 
	All-God's hand, and sets up the Council of the Nine to govern 
	its use. Those who do not use magic in the ways set out by the 
	All-God during the Age of Law are considered outlaws.
	* 207 Darkness is destroyed by Triaan. Baalzebul takes his place. 

AGE OF ENLIGHTENMENT
	* circa 70 Mankind begins his understanding of the multiverse, 
	and travel the probability time-lines, the Heavens, and the Hells.
	* 100 Triaan forms The Seven in Entannax whose followers are 
	elvish knights. He chooses the symbol of the Unicorn for his 
	house, which becomes the symbol of Llore and the city.
	* 101 Hierophant Kiothan announces the new Elemental Powers. 
	Druids, lead by Kiothan, begin their worship nature itself, 
	and honour the Elemental Powers as Antaaries offspring. 
	* circa 200 The Grand Fenwick becomes a power in the Middle Realms.
	* 420 Asmodeus wrestles power from Baalzebul, and forces his name 
	change to Beezelbub (Lord of the Flies (lies?), or "Little Devils")
	* 576 Lord VonZarovitch settles in the lands nearby Fenwick. 	
	* circa 600 The first writings of Greystaffe appear.
	* circa 614 The Universities of Knowledge are built across the 
	middle realms; Greyhawk, Greystaffe, Mithril, Silence, and others.
	* circa 700 Triaan is seen for the last time venturing into the 
	Outer Planes to fight Tannri'.
	* 742 The elves build the first flying ships, while Gnomes first 
	venture into the crystal spheres with Spell Jammers; their greatest
	accomplishment of technology. Elves are soon to gain the technology 
	and trade knowledge with their cousins from other worlds. 
	* 878 The Fenwick vanishes from Magia, along with the estates of 
	VonZarovitch. 


AGE OF SOULS
	* 29 The gods argue over the transaction of souls in raising and 
	resurrections. Many are destroyed in their war. The All-God decrees 
	that no souls will be transferred by raising for 1000 years.
	* 920 The street-mage Tharizdun is banished by three unknown brothers
	of magic.


AGE OF THE MIND
	* circa 1 The essence of True-Magic is forgotten.
	* circa 10 Evil dragons, lead by Tiamut, destroy Tokska', a 
	dwarvish citadel. The dwarves wage war on Tiamut's clerics, 
	destroying twelve thousand in the battle at Gountuu.
	* 302 The talent of Psionics is rediscovered in the Teachings 
	of Galadier; a tome from the Age of Dreams. Monk teachings in 
	the Eastern Realms include this disciplines in their philosophy, 
	which soon spreads to the West.


AGE OF INNOCENCE
	* 470 The bard Apollo plays for the House of Llore.
	* 800  The elven princess Halanil Celanil ascends into the Heavens,
	and is granted the powers of Demi God status by Eli' at the request
	of Antaaries. 
	* 812 The grey elves of Entannax complete the great treaty of 
	Zuphlas, which is signed by the elves of Phalex, Entannax, and 
	Cia'thill. The treaty protects the wilderness areas of the Forest 
	of the Lost, Forest of Ice, and the Forest of Visions. 


AGE OF MIGHT
	* 4 The Immortals appear on Magia. Each God is permitted one mortal 
	representative upon Magia in whom they may endow special abilities, 
	of whom Arrion is the first. The deity Taalandrix chooses a cockroach 
	to be his immortal.
	* 902 Aleena is instated as the Chosen Prophet of the All-God. 
	She becomes the most powerful and influential of all the All-God's 
	prophets. Aleena Felkin returns from Pandemonium with the relics of 
	Arnd; his coat and mace.
	* 910 Ekimthanis, of the House of Llore, discovers his ancestor 
	Triaan's tomb, and his sword Aelbyion
	* 932 Ekimthanis joins the Council of the Nine, soon followed by 
	Skandle Wizardstryke. 
	* 933 Ekimthanis returns from the Abyss with the Teeth of Devalnar-Nah. 
	* 936 Skandle is given the name Vecna by the high elves after he destroys
	the citadel of Quianthi.


AGE OF SORROW
	* 2 Arrion is defeated by the evil kensai Asgard. Skandle and 
	Ekimthanis join the ranks of the Immortals.
	* 12 Prophet Aleena Felkin dies of old age. Prophets Day is 
	announced to remember her. 
	* 15 Ekimthanis returns from his quest to Ysgard with the 
	artefact The Sacred Heart in remembrance of Aleena.
	* 212 Ekimthanis discovers the Throne of the Gods.
	* 477 The recorder of Ye Cind is found by Ekimthanis within 
	the City of Brass, on elemental plane of fire.


AGE OF DARKNESS
	* 1 Darkness returns from imprisonment and tempts Lord Avenger, 
	the only human in the service of the Knights of Entannax. 
	* 134 Skandle, immortal to Asmodeus, is assassinated as he turns 
	his back on his duties.
	* 304 Street Mages, including Skoundrel Wizardstryke, attempt 
	to return Skandle from the dead.
	* 425 Fennex Llore is killed by servants of Skandle. Ekimthanis 
	passes control of Entannax to the Circle of the Unicorn, The Seven. 
	* 786 The Valley of Life falls to a curse. Dwarves in Primus take 
	in humans and elves in order to save them from the death of their 
	valley. 
	* 855 Prophet Thorin is chosen by Moradin.


AGE OF PROPHECY
	* 32 Skandle, the One Whose Names is Spoken in Whispers, returns, 
	as foretold by Greystaffe. 
	* 213 Thorin completes the fabled Rod of Seven Parts, and  restores 
	life to the Valley of Death.
	* 378 Ekimthanis discovers the first of the Tomes of Power; the 
	10th Level Spells.
	* 402 Arrion receives a sainthood as his mortal following grows. 
	The first temple of Saint Arrion is finished on the Isle of Flame.
	* 603 Death attempts to exact direct control of all mortals. 
	Many gods send avatars to right this act. All gods are banished 
	from the heavens for their intervention. 
	* 605 Blue-Hawk rediscovers True-Magic and the Tablets of Fate. 
	These are used to return balance to Magia, and the gods to their former 
	homes.
	* 799 Sir Maddison Steele leads the armies of the All-God in a 
	doomed holy war at Killanalian. 
	* 805 Maddison, and a bard named Calin, return from The Mists with 
	the symbol of Seeker; the Sun Medallion; and the Crown of Souls; an 
	artefact of great evil.
	* 990 Ekimthanis surrenders his immortality, and no more immortals 
	are to serve the gods. 
	* 999 Skandle defeats Mynstorm and Death to become a god. The Cult 
	of Skandle is formed, and all control of magic is seized by him. 


SECOND AGE OF MAGIC
	* 83 Acipter, now a white robed wizard, reappears with the black
	robed Zentrani, and grey robed Magaan, to join together to defeat
	Skandle. Magic is returned to the control of mortals. Three new 
	moons form in the sky, each a representative of the new guardians 
	of magic, to guard this new law.
	* 99 War, Death, and Famine join forces to claim the worshippers 
	of the fallen Dark Lords of the Hells. Together they are a powerful
	force for evil. 
	* 100 Ekimthanis resigns his position from the Council of the Nine
	after nearly 3000 years in order to further his research in Mathemagics. 
	* 101 The Council elects a new member  to its ranks. Its members now are 
	Ariel Starr, Gaynell Spellslynger, and Azzel Steele of the White Robes; 
	Lieutenant Rasmus, Lady Aquila Stalker, and Blazedon of the Grey Robes; 
	Amorel DarkHawk, Lord Yale Silverstrike, and Sol of the Black Robes. 
	* 116 Tharizdun escapes from his prison on the Astral and becomes a 
	demi-god. Tharizdun raises to un-life his wife who joins his side as
	a Power.
	* 118 The War of the IronHand begins. 
	* 119 Lord Yale is slain at the battle of Shadowbane during the
	War of IronHand. Sol becomes the new head of the Black Robes of 
	the Council of the Nine. Tudor Ghost is appointed to the Nine 
	to replace him. Gaynell Spellslynger resigns his position and 
	retires from the Council to teach at Greyhawk University.
	* 122  The city WhiteStarr is destroyed by The Ancient Spell 
	begun by the One Whose Name is Spoken in Whispers nearly 
	4000 years ago, and completed by the Drow of the Great Northern 
	Continent. 
	* 123 The city Ille Coronos begins construction under the
	watchful eyes of The drow.

