::: THE HISTORY OF ILLE CORONOS :::

AS CHRONICLED IN THE DIARIES OF LORD ALASTAIRE NIGHTHAWK

The Year Of Our Lord 122, Being The Second Age Of Magic

4th Verchial	Whitestarr is destroyed by the Drow, after they complete an incantation by the One whose Name is Spoken in Whispers.

1th Hanael	The members of the Circle meet in Entannax at Sir Monty's behest, to start the quest to create The Circle. The companions begin their preparations.

3th Hanael	The Companions leave on a ship Captained by the Cap'n.

30th Hanael	The Circle arrives to find the remains of Whitestarr.


The Year Of Our Lord 123, Being The Second Age Of Magic

1th Gabriel	God's Day celebrations begin. Alastaire leaves to hunt for wild game in the forest and endures the Transfiguration..

5th Gabriel	The Circle surveys Whitestarr's ruins and discovers the elemental stone from the flogistron. Lord Alastaire and the Cap'n recover cannons, a telescope, and compass from a ruined battleship. The ruined hulks of three other ships are brought to shore by the Cap'n.
		Magus Thalandon  and Lord Alexander arrive from Entannax on Captain Sathion's ship as an observer.

29th Barchiel	The Circle remains to start their new city and begin clearing the city. Greywolf departs after putting the flogistron stone in a place of safekeeping.
		Master George arrives to Ille Coronos to trade.

30th Barchiel	Cherrin Ironhand and his family arrives to Ille Coronos and receives a land grant from The Circle.

1st Malahidal	Sir Whitestarr and Sir Shadowbane return victorious from the war in Ebony, only to find their city in ruins, and the Circle building a new city. High Priestess Aurora, Master George, Lord Alexander and Sir Monty leave for Moodin.

9th Malahidal	Lord Alastaire and Sir Kaile meet Shepherd Marcus and his Family while travelling to Stokh. They are given lands in the high country. 

10th Malahidal	Lord Alastaire and Sir Kaile rendezvous with the expedition returning from Moodin (who had spoken to Mayor Handlefoot) and continue onto Stokh. Lord Alexander begins George's path under the worship of Bahamut. Jack Mirrin accompanies them with his dog, being hired to help with the advancement of agriculture in the region.

13th Malahidal	Sir Kaile and Lady Aurora aid Alastaire through the Transfiguration. The expedition to Stokh is prevented from completion because of the rugged terrain.

17th Malahidal	The expedition returns to Ille Coronos. Lord Alexander and Jack Mirrin track a patrol of Drow who have been seen in the district.

20th Malahidal	Lord Alexander and Jack Mirrin return after losing the drow patrol. Jack Mirrin leaves for the holdings of Cherrin Ironhand.

21st Malahidal	Yvette and Cansen's families arrive from the forest. They are tailors and seamstress's who build an encampment north of the Circle's.

22nd Malahidal	Alastaire's followers and Monty's retainers arrive. Princess Starburst arrives on a Griffon. Princess Starburst knights George and enlists him as a personal adviser.

23rd Malahidal	An expedition leaves for Scianthion. Alastaire is discovered to be the Great Bear of the Forest by the residing wood elves. Food supplies are sent to Ille Coronos. A celebration of the discovery of the Great Bear last two weeks.

11th Asmodel	The expedition returns. Sir Monty returns to Ravenloft, finding the strain and isolation  beyond his ability to currently deal with. Rachel arrives to Ille Coronos much to the delight of Alastaire. Alastaire begins his studies into magic. Sir Monty's retainers decide to remain for a time to aid in the building of Ille Coronos.

11th Verchiel	Over the past three months many advances were made in the construction of Ille Coronos. The wharves are completed by the Cap'n. The city is finally cleared with the aid of Stella, a druid from Scianthion. The first wheat crops are harvested, with the aid of Stella's magic. Stella's magic entices the fish to return to the Bay. George begins to teach Stella the common tongue, and she teaches him Elvish in return. 
		Alastaire completes his training and becomes a master in the two-handed sword. Princess Starburst continues to survey the  outlying regions. Drow patrols are on the increase to the south. Jack Mirrin discovers the subterranean passages beneath Ille Coronos with his faithful companion Spotty Dog.
		High Priestess Aurora tends to the wounded and injured of the war and sees to the health and well-being of the new settlers.

12th Verchiel	Master Portheos arrives from Entannax on Rachel's newly retrofitted ship. Sir Whitestarr brings the need for lumber to the attention of the Circle. Lord Alexander departs for Entannax. Commander Thomas Thorbest arrives to Ille Coronos from Ebony.

13th Verchiel	An expedition leaves to hunt the Leucrotta, a dreaded beast hunting the wood elves. George seeks this beast to obtain armour in his cause for good. That night the companions are set upon by six drow who are quickly slain. It is discovered that they belonged to the house Noquar.

14th Verchiel	Lord Curzon Bain arrives to accompany Lord Alastaire, Sir Kaile, Sir George, Master Portheos, and Commander Thomas Thorbest, a recent companion of the Circle. High Priestess Aurora and Priest Crowley arrive.

30th Verchiel	After day's of tracking, following an unsuccessful attack by a leucrotta, the leucrotta's lair is found and four of the evil beasts are slain. The expedition returns victorious to Scianthion.

1st Hamaliel	Alastaire escorts his friends to the edge of the forest as they return home with two carpenters and a bard named Rousthought, who was found wandering the forest. A section of the forest is released to the Circle for lumber. Alastaire cures the leucrotta hides to prepare them for leatherworking.

7th Hamaliel	Alastaire endures the Transfiguration..

14th Hamaliel	Alastaire returns home to Ille Coronos. Lord Alexander returns with sir George's helm and presents it to him in a private ceremony. Lord Whitestarr notifies the Circle that Bailston has been conducting patrols in the catacombs beneath Ille Coronos. It is decided that a contingent shall be sent to Stokh to entreaty the dwarves to aid in the construction of Ille Coronos.
		Kalinda arrives confused to Ille Coronos. She has arrived from another plane of existence and has no idea about the lands of Magia. Lord Portheos aids Kalinda in her integration into society.

16th Hamaliel	Alastaire finishes the forging of the platinum circlet adorned with gems, which shall become an enchanted gift to the King of Stokh. Magus Thalandon and Lord Portheos begin imbuing the crown with magical ability. 
		Commander Thorbest, Lord Bain, and Kalinda leave on a patrol of Ille Coronos' boundaries.

5th Uriel	The circlet is imbued with its final magic, which will allow the dwarven King to learn how to cast magic. Lord Portheos graciously gives a horse to both Lord Alastaire and Lady Aurora. Thorbest, Bain and Kalinda return from their patrols after an uneventful three weeks. Bailston continues his patrols in the subterranean passages.
		Princess Tilshanar returns from battling six drow at the quarry. She is more injured than she lets on to her companions. Sir George and Lady Aurora aid her with her injuries. Princess Tilshanar objects to Lady Aurora seeing her in such a state.

6th Uriel	Lord Portheos opens a portal to allow Kalinda, Lord Alastaire, Lord Alexander, Lady Aurora and Sir George, through to Stokh. After climbing the mountain for the day the entrance to Stokh is discovered. With much persuasion the companions are allowed to enter Stokh and permitted an audience with the king. King Drowbane is initially suspicious, but is overwhelmed by the gift of the circlet and the fact that we wish to eliminate the problem of the drow as much as they do.
		During celebrations Lord Alexander becomes the Blood Brother of the King. Commander Thorbest arrives through the power of Portheos' magic.
		The companions are introduced to the stonemason's and architects who will aid in Ille Coronos' construction.

7th Uriel	Lord Alastaire, Lady Aurora, Kalinda and Lord Portheos portal home on more urgent business, while the remainder of the companions march home with a contingent of fifty dwarves.

8th Uriel	Master Portheos and Kalinda meet Garinzden in Entannax for Kalinda's trial, due to her wild magic.

9th Uriel	In the trial Kalinda is found guilty of using wild magic and loses one level of magic. Kalinda starts her 1001 day apprenticeship. Master Portheos and Apprentice Kalinda return home to Ille Coronos.

13th Uriel	Alastaire portals to the forest and undergoes the transfiguration.

14th Uriel	The dwarves arrive from Stokh and begin the construction of the city.

16th Uriel	Bailston is attacked by a humanoid figure.

17th Uriel	The companions portal down into the subterranean passages and begin exploring, without the knowledge of the rest of the Circle. The armour of Kianthi's brother is found, as well as the shield of Deathgaze. A sword is also found in the sealed room in the passages. The original plans to Whitestarr are discovered.
		The corpses of six dwarves are discovered.
		The companions return, and at the evening meal Sir George's rules of trade are accepted by the Circle, while his induction into the Circle is voted against. This is due to Lady Aurora abstaining until she receives advice from the All-God.

18th Uriel	The construction of the church is scheduled to be completed in approximately one month. One hundred and fifty dwarven troops are expected to arrive within the month. The messengers guild is initiated with six members, including a runner named Chris.
		At the evening meal Sir George is voted as a member of the Circle.
		That night the companions continue their exploration and they are attacked by cave-fishes and bats. Lady Aurora gets a mild hypothermia from falling in the water.

19th Uriel	Lady Aurora gives a sermon at dawn. Princess Tilshinar reports that horses have been appropriated by the people of Kelvor from Silin. There are also more patrols in the north.
		That night, the companions returned to the passages, and furthered their exploration of the passages. Using their poor lock picking skills, the companions managed to open some of the caskets found in the secret chamber. Unfortunately Sir George set off one of the traps that protected the caskets and was turned into stone. The companions watched in horror as his flesh was slowly changed and nothing could be done to prevent the transformation. Master Portheos created a portal and the companions carried the stone form of Sir George into Portheos' tent. Master Portheos then used one of his precious wishes to return our friend to his previous form.
		The experience had shaken Sir George badly and at that nights meal he revealed to the rest of the Circle of what had been occurring. The rest of the companions revealed their complicity and Sir Whitestarr left, obviously feeling betrayed. The rest of the Circle tried to explain their position to Sir Shadowbane, though to little avail. Sir Shadowbane didn't recognise that the year the companions spent in Ravenloft has sharpened their instincts for the wrong doing of others. The trust that the companions have for each other did not seem to impress itself on the rest of the Circle's members.
		Lord Alastair stormed off in anger and confusion, his instinct for witholding the information until concrete evidence could be discovered being justified.
		That night the companions explored the remainder of the passages but discover nothing new.

20th Uriel	That morning Curzon Bain has a strange double encounter with Bailston, that makes him suspicious of his true identity. With Sir George's assistance the companions spied on Bailston and to their shock discover that he is working for the Drow, a Commander named Dzat'kath. They learned that he was planning to escape that night. The companions brought this to the attention of Lt. Kadin, who was extremely curious about the news. Lady Aurora's trueseeing abilities also discovered that most of the people in the campsite were under the influence of a charm spell.
		That afternoon Princess Tilshinar reported that a band of drow were heading towards the city and the army of Ille Coronos prepared for battle. Through the confusion Bailston escaped. That evening as dusk approached there was a sudden attack on the town. A fierce battle begun but the companions suspected foul play. With the All-Gods aid it was discovered that a powerful illusion was making the people of Ille Coronos attack each other and that Bailston had met the company of Drow. Master Portheos created a portal and Lord Alastair, Lady Aurora and Commander Thrbest follow.
		After a vicious battle, the companions triumphed, though Bailston was dead at the hands of a cruel spell. Lady Kianthi, a hostage of Bailston was kidnapped by Dzat'kath, and her brother was slain protecting defending his sister.
		On returning to Ille Coronos the effects of the spell had dissipated, though it was decided that the rest of the circle would be better off if the truth of the night was kept a secret, in light of the revelaions of Kianthi's survival.
		The comapnions then confronted the Bailston imposter, and discovered that he was a doppleganger. The companions called a truce and allowed the doppleganger to maintain the ruse, to keep the memory of Bailston whole. 



