THE LANDS AND PEOPLE OF NORTHERN MAGIA

PEOPLE OF NORTHERN MAGIA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
The Townspeople
	Cherrin Ironhand arrived with his four caravans from Finsbury Fields.
        They were given their directions by Captain Weston. They were the
        first family to arrive to find that Whitestarr had been destroyed and
        that Ille Coronos was being built. The main produce of the Ironhand
        Family is wheat.

	Geoff Marcus and his family and his family arrived second to Ille
        Coronos when they brought their sheep to trade. The were met by the
        Circle who were returning from a failed expedition from Stokh and
        were given title in the northern lands. Geoff was given a title by
        Sir Whitestarr at the beginning of the war.

	Yvette and Carren belong to a family of tailors and seamstress's.
        After the war began in Ebony they fled to the forests while their
        husbands Talis and Xans fought in the war. Their husbands died while
        fighting in the 18th infantry. They have a brother Caig who is in his
        late twenties, who also has a daughter Jalis, a six year old protege
        in the flute.
	
Sir Gadrion Whitestarr
	Sir Whitestarr's standard is a white star on a blue background. He
        envisioned the city of Whitestarr and was its main founder. His
        sister Kianthy was the person who was able to encourage the dwarves
        to help build the city. She died some years ago in unknown
        circumstances. Sir Whitestarr is half-elven.
	
	People under his command:
               *Lt. Dathon - Men at arms.
		
Sir Mitton Shadowbane
	Sir Shadowbane's standard is a shield with a black eagle on the left
        with the right halved in red. This man is suspicious of others and
        rarely laughs or smiles, but his heart and loyalties are above
        reproach. He supplied substantial investment into the building of
        Whitestarr. He also commands an army of approximately two hundred and
        fifty.

	People under his command:
               *Lt Adric Kadin - First Adviser and Cleric of the All-God. He
                has lived near Gnome-Dome and can speak the gnomish tongue
                with ease.
               *Major Bailston - Men at Arms.
               *Sir Kaile - Is the Commander of the second Cavalry and
                faithful representative of Shadowbane's men.
               *Squire Ladd - A herald for Shadowbane who is infatuated with
                High Priestess Aurora.

Princess Tilshanar Starburst
	Princess Starburst's standard has golden stars on a blue background.
        She is the first born of her family, who resides in the city of
        Phallux, a small kingdon of grey elves. She rides a griffon.

Major Bailston
	He was a victim of his own circumstances. Bailston worked with the
        drow and knew that Whitestarr was going to be destroyed. Because he
        was the messenger that travelled regularly to Whitestarr he timed his
        visit and kidnapped Lady Kianthi and her brother and hid them in the
        subterranean passages beneath the city to protect them from the
        impending demise of the city. He also gave love letters from
        Shadowbane to Kianthi. When the drow lost the war, Bailston didn't
        know what to do. He realised that if he released them that he would
        be killed. With the investigations of the Circle, Bailston realised
        that time was running out and proceeded to escape, making a pact with
        a doppelganger to take his place. Unfortunately, to the cost of his
        life, Bailston was betrayed by the drow.


CITIES OF NORTHERN MAGIA
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
Scianthion
	The city of the wood elves. They are a peaceful people who are shy of
        outsiders. They consider that there is only the one God who is the
        universe and that other Gods must be his servant. They are an
        impressionable people, first believing that Lord Alastaire a God, but
        finally understanding him to be but a servant of the All-God.
	They prefer to bury their dead in the forest. Other customs include
        presenting a plant to the elder upon arriving in the great hut.
	They are great carpenters and provide an abundance of nourishing
        food. Recent troubles to the people of Scianthion have included two
        green dragons and their hatchlings who were devoured by the Great
        Bear of the Forest. The Circle of Ille Coronos vanquished the
        Leucrotta, an evil being that was terrorising the elves.
	
	The people of Scianthion include :
               *Stella - A Druid.
               *Candon - An elf who speaks common and is the liaison between
               *Coronos and the elves.
               *Chandan - An elf met in the forest while hunting the
                leucrotta.
               *Silith - An elf met in the forest while hunting the leucrotta.
               *Dasti- A carpenter helping in the construction of Ille
                Coronos.
               *Thosaa- A carpenter helping in the construction of Ille
                Coronos.

Whitestarr
	Whitestarr was built to be a city that supplied the war effort in
        Ebony. It was founded by Sir Whitestarr with the assistance of Sir
        Shadowbane. It was destroyed by the drow as they brought down a hail
        of flogistron stones onto the city. It is now certain that the house
        of Noquar destroyed Whitestarr as part of a deal with the Baron
        Sardin in their quest for control of the continent.

Ebony
	Baron Sardin built a shrine to himself so that all may worship him.
        An evil and cruel leader, Baron Sardin ignited tensions that began
        because of the resistance led by Ironhand, that lasted five years.
        Baron Sardin was finally vanquished and Mayor Gerald was elected to
        rule the city. It is theorised that the Baron's rule was becoming
        too aggressive and the drow decided that their pawn was no longer
        worth the risk. So the drow secretly supported the forces of the
        Ironhand to help them win the war.

Moodin
	The mayor of Moodin is Handlefoot, a cleric of Taalandrix, who can be
        quit annoying but can be restrained under the watchful eye of Aurora,
        the high Priestess of the All-God.
	Moodin trades well in wheat.
	The people of Moodin do not seem to be well at ease with those in
        Kelvor, considering that that city is very near the Drow homelands.

	The people of Moodin include:
               *Mayor Handlefoot- The mayor of Moodin.
               *Jack Mirrin- A ranger hired from Atherton Ranch to oversee
                the grain production in Ille Coronos. His everpresent
                faithful companion is spotty dog.

Kelvor
	All that is known about Kelvor is that some dwarves reside there and
        that their are drow influences there due to their closeness to the
        drow city.

Stokh
	Stokh is the city of the dwarves who are quite recluse. They helped
        build the city of Whitestarr, after persuasion by Kianthi,
        Whitestarr's sister. They do not seem to want anything to do with the
        outside world.

        When the expedition to Stokh finally succeeded it was discovered that
        the dwarves of Stokh had no involvement in the building of Whitestarr.
        It is conjectured that the dwarves that built Whitestarr were either
        renegades of Stokh, the dwarves of Kelvor, or Duergar who live
        beneath Whitestarr or Kelvor. The king of Stokh is King Drowbane, a
        lively warrior who loves his drink as much as telling stories about
        his battles with the drow. Initially wary of outsiders, Drowbane has
        made Lord Alexander his blood brother.
	
        Subjects Under King Drowbane's Rule Include:
               *Maldoc : Personal guard to the King.
               *Tebbot : The voice of the king, and personal adviser.
               *Malls : the second stonemason to the king.
               *Carig : Malls brother. He drew the original map of the
               northern realm. When he came back from a battle he returned
               with a human male companion. They drank and spoke about the
               House of Noquar. They left and have not been seen for a year
               (it is conjectured that this person is Bailston). Carig and
               his companions were the dwarves who helped in the initial
               building of Whitestarr, that made the deal with Lady Kianthi.
               Though the bodies of these dwarves were found in the
               subterranean passages.

Silin
	Silin is only known to have an excellent stock of horses. They are
        known for their excellent horse bloodlines.

Darken Mountain
	The drow call the peninsula that Ille Coronos is founded upon, The
        Tendrils. It is known that one of the houses that exert considerable
        influence is the house of Noquar. A Commander Dzat'kath made deals
        with Bailston, on the destruction of Whitestarr, and betrayed
        Bailston. He has considerable power.

Mildon
	It is know that their is a drow outpost near this city. Mildon lies
        twenty miles south of Silin.


