CREDO OF "THE CIRCLE" 
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
History.
	While Sir Montgomery Scott and his companions journeyed through the
        township of Avonleigh and began to learn its history, knowledge of
        the Circle, a group of twelve Paladins was discovered. He so
        appreciated the dedication , law and order that they brought to the
        land they ruled that he decided to create a similar organisation.
	Knowing that his vision could not come to fruition by himself, Sir
        Monty (as he preferred to be known) invited his companions to
        Entannax to leave on a quest to find a suitable site for the founding
        of a city. The companions that would join Sir Monty were Lord
        Alastaire Nighthawk, Lord Alexander Celestian, Lord Crowley Margon,
        The Cap'n and High Priestess Aurora Shadowborn.

	Lord Alastaire Nighthawk was a longtime friend of Sir Monty after he
        aided in the protection of Alastaire's home town of Skilton. Lord
        Alexander Celestian was a companion of Sir Benjamin Scott, elder
        brother of Sir Monty, and continued with Sir Monty after Ben left
        his companions to pursue other goals.

        Lord Crowley Margon joined the companions after journeying into the
        mists and finding his brother Lord Celestian.

        The Cap'n was the newest adventurer to join the companions, an eager
        seafaring mage willing to take on the task of exploring new lands.
	Lady Aurora was the sister of the now deceased Ferrin Shadowborn,
        one of the founders of the original Circle. She was rescued by Sir
        Monty and his companions after being captured by Morgoroth.
	
	After weeks of travel a suitable inlet was found in the northern
        realms of Magia. At the end of this they discovered the ruins of a
        once thriving and beautiful city called Whitestarr. They decided that
        this would be an appropriate place to bring law to the land and began
        to found a new city named Ille Coronos.

	The philosophy in the construction of Ille Coronos was debated over
        many nights by Sir Monty and his friends until finally, three main
        ideas evolved.
 
 * They were to create a place where law and order could thrive, and to
   provide a position where they could combat those who would destroy the
   peace of others.

 * To establish trade and political ties between all the cities in the north,
   to promote friendship and stability between all involved.

 * To provide political and trade channels with the southern realms to
   decrease the isolationism experienced in the northern realms.
 
	It was decided that "The Circle" would have twelve members, and that
        these members would agree to the following restrictions.

* That members of "The Circle" must be men or women of good character with
  true respect for the law.

* That new members must have unanimous approval from the existing Circle
  members.

* A prospective member bust be nominated by at least two existing Circle
  members before a final vote is taken place. In the case of a retiring
  member, he or she should nominate his or her successor if circumstances
  permit.

* If a member strays from the Circles  then a vote of expulsion may be
  called. This must be nominated by two members with a unanimous vote
  following, barring the person in question.

* Every day a different member of the Circle stands as public counsel to the
  people.

The Regent of the Circle is elected every four years.

