The Law of Magic

THE HISTORY

	Since the Age of Law The Creator granted the power of magic to mortals,
 as well as its governing under the Laws He set before them. No god, He decreed,
 shall ever rule over it.
	During the ages many have tried to set themselves up as gods over magic. 
Those from the Forgotten Realmstm. have attempted to bring the worship of Mystra
and Loki into Magia will little success. More recently, the Dreaded One, 
Skandle, rose up from the bowels of the Abyss, conquering the Dark Ones and 
seized control of magic.
	The council was in tatters. All mages either worshipped the Dreaded One, 
or they could not wield what had been declared theirs by right of creation.
	Only three mages stood in his way; Acipter, Majaan, and Zentrani. All 
three were sponsored by those of His children who stood by the laws of magic. 
Those children who opposed them attempted to deny them existence. Thus was the
beginning of the Second Age of Magic.
	After a fierce battle, which raged in the heavens, three new moons 
appeared in the skies, and magic once again passed into the control of mortals.
The three became demigods in their own right, building up their power beyond 
the knowledge of mortals. Now, they reside, ever watching magic and its use, 
and protecting it for all eternity against the Dreaded One, and all like him
 - Greystaffe


THE LAW
	Magic itself is a much misunderstood thing, among modern mortals. The
true way of magic is only understood by a few who have discovered the secrets
of the Age of Dreams from dragons and ancient Powers. Magic, in reality, is
contained in all things, both living and non-living. It is in the air we 
breathe, and in the food we eat; it surrounds us and binds us with the world 
of Magia.
	Wizards, the mortal guardians of magic, believe they know its secrets, 
yet they have forgotten its real powers through eons of ritual and ceremony. 
Common is the belief that magic comes from ancient words which hold magical 
power. These runes become imprinted upon the long-term memory through 
memorisation and wrote-rehearsal techniques. Somatic, material, and verbal 
components are believed to be required to release the magic, and once this 
is performed, the magic contained therein vanishes. Other lands believe that 
the runes are keys which unlock the magic from their environs, the more 
powerful the rune, the more magic it can release from the weave of magic 
about them. All such notions, as noted by Mathemagicians and dragons, are 
incorrect. 


The Myth of Magic
	Apparently, magic interferes with metallic objects, especially those 
which contain iron ore. Mages do not wear armour or wield weapons such as 
swords because of this. Another hindrance is the bulky nature of armour, and 
that it impedes ones complex somatic components. This is, of course, a falsehood. 
	Elves have wielded magic and sword for as long as they have roamed the 
forests of Magia and other such primes; Dragons cast magic without need of any components. Then there is the question of Wild Magic. Are there separate magics 
which each race is able to utilise? The answer is, of course, no. Magic is much 
more simple to understand than we would believe, yet it is in unlocking its 
powers, and bending it to the Will of the caster that is immensely complex. 
	Magic requires immense mind power, and incredible concentration. Magic 
merely requires certain mental influences to shape and to bind it to the will 
of the wielder. Hence, anyone with The Will can wield magic. But the average 
wizard is ignorant of this fact due to the passage of time where ritual and 
ceremony have covered the truth.
	A new breed of wizard, the Wild Mage and the Mathemagician, however, 
are beginning a new crusade to unlock the lost truth of magic.

Memorisation
	All sages who study the philosophy and psychology of true magical 
phenomenon agree that all wizards must carefully study those spells which they 
wish to cast. Whereas most wizards believe that the magic enters the long-term 
memory where it remains until required, recent (although ancient) magical law 
dictates that simply the magical formula for the spell is imprinted for later 
recall, and possible multiple use. This formulae is that which unlocks certain 
areas in the cortex of higher order functions within the brain. These centers 
are able to control magic, forcing it through the body, and shaping it to a 
desired form. Magic surrounds the caster, and he uses the magical formula, and 
his own magical potential, to cast spells. 
	From world to world the amount of inherent magical potential that a mage 
has within himself differs greatly. Many primes, such as Oearth tm. or the 
Forgotten Realms tm., contain only enough magic within their environs to permit 
a mage to cast but one spell for every formulae he has memorised. Others, such 
as Magia, contain enough for several castings of the same spell. When cast, no 
matter what world the mage is on, the spell is not forgotten. Spells such as 
Nahal's Reckless Dweomer prove that, although a spell has been cast, magic can 
still be provided to 'shape' any spell effect. Further, if single memorisation 
were true, and the magical runes of a 1st level spell held only 1st level 
magical power (or access), how can a spell, such that Nahal created, ever find 
the magical potential to mimic any spell the caster knows? Such an example is 
proof not only that the magic so memorised is not forgotten, but that it is 
the environment which holds the magic, and the wizard's mind and body which 
shapes it.


Wild Mages
	The standard, and somewhat archaic laws of memorisation simply do not 
explain where the Wild Mage gains his extra power when he casts spells. 
	The Wild Mage is able to put more energy into his spells, resulting in 
the spell being cast at higher levels. Occasionally this feat backfires and the 
spell is cast at a lower level. Sometimes, to party members distain, a Wild 
Surge occurs, creating additional magical effects. 
	Old memorisation laws can not explain where this extra magical energy 
comes from. The only explanation is if the magic comes from another source, 
and the wizard is attempting to tap that source in his ritual spell casting. 
	Wild magic is not a separate magic, it is simply a different way of 
utilising the magical energy around the caster. To this same end, it is 
therefore possible for a non-wild mage to be able to cast the wild mages 
unique spells, such as Nahal's Reckless Dweomer, however none of the unique 
effects, such as Wild Surges occur, and all subsequent spell effects occur at 
reduced power.


Spell Points and Magia
	All wizards have a certain potential by which they gauge their power. 
On some primes this potential is equal to one point per level of spell. Such 
indicates that he may only cast each spell in memory once. On Magia this 
potential is known as spell points (SP). His SP are equal to twice the number 
of the skill of the school of the wizard. 
	To regain any reasonable amount of spell potential, or ability, a mage 
need only to heal normally, through drinking and eating. Magical means never 
give back any amount of magical potential.

	It should be noted that while some spells grant a wizard additional hit 
points (e.g.: Vampiric Touch q.v.), these don't grant a wizard additional SP. 
Only certain magic items, and a wizard's familiar grant him additional SP. When 
a wizard first calls a familiar, and gains additional HP due to the empathic 
bond, he also gains additional SP. Similarly, when a wizard wears rings of 
wizardry q.v. he also gains additional SP. 


Magic and Alignment
	Certain types of magical energy do exist, each with its own wavelength 
and frequency, as mentioned earlier. Sages have found it interesting to note 
the many similarities between these wavelengths and those viewed through the 
use of certain magical devices and spells, such as true seeing, detect 
alignment, or even through the use of the psionic power of aura sight. 
Obviously, magical energy and life energy are similar. It is hypothesised that 
certain magical energies are hence easier to wield than others dependant upon 
the casters alignment. 
	Abjuration contains a similar wavelength to that alignment of good, 
while alteration contains one similar to those wizards of neutral alignment. 
It is therefore no surprise that necromancy contains an almost identical 
wavelength to those of evil alignment. Extensive study into this phenomenon of
alignment and magic have shown that use of magic not of similar wavelengths to 
the caster causes his alignment to alter over the passing of time, eventually 
becoming attuned to that wavelength; hence those who study the school of 
necromancy almost always become evil.
	These are well known laws of magic, and can be found in many texts 
around Magia. History claims that the Creator himself wrote one of these books 
so that mortals could know magic and its workings. It was He who designed magic 
to be wielded according to the wizards own life energy.
	The casting of magic that is not attuned to ones alignment can also have
certain environmental effects over extended periods of time. Since magic is 
found all around the caster, and is bound to his Will by one means or another, 
the passing of magical energies through a caster whose alignment does not 
match that magic which he is shaping causes damage to those living things 
around him. 
	The incredible environmental damage that this causes can be seen in 
the articles on Athas, the prime of the Dark Sun. It is for this reason that 
the practice of magic outside ones alignment on primes such as Krynn and Magia 
is outlawed. 

	Hence, White Robe mages cast abjuration most effectively, Black Robe
mages cast necromancy most effectively, and Grey Robe mages cast alteration
with the most power. At a lesser effect, bust still more potent than a 
standard renegade wizard, Grey and White cast evocation more effectively,
Grey and Black equally well with illusion spells, and Black and White share
casting ability with conjuration spells. Schools of magic outside these
domains are cast less efficiently, but the advantages of casting like-energy
spells when compared to alignment speak for themselves.




THE ROBES OF MAGIC
	"...and He gave the tome to the mortal, explaining its working. Said He 
that all mortals have the power to wield Magic, if they so choose to study it; 
its power is governed not by His children, or others like them, but by man's 
own Will. Good men shall wield magic of their kind, just as evil men shall 
wield theirs...."
	- Greystaffe
	from the Law of Magic. circa Age of Dreams.



WHITE ROBED WIZARD
Schools of Magic: Abjuration, Evocation, Conjuration, Charm, Divination

GREY ROBED WIZARD
Schools of Magic: Alteration, Evocation, Conjuration, Illusion, Divination

BLACK ROBED WIZARD
Schools of Magic: Divination, Conjuration, Charm, Illusion, Necromancy


THE COUNCIL OF HIGH MAGIC: The Council of the Nine.
	Magic in Magia is governed by nine mortals; mages who sit on a council,
elected, or otherwise gaining seats, in order to make sure that magic is not 
abused by those who claim this profession. Past members include Mordenkainen, 
Bigby, Kassandra and Skandle Wizardstryke, and Ekimthanis Llore. The council 
meets on the first day of the month, and on conjunctions of all three moons 
(the last day of the year; The Grand Conjunction).
	Upon reaching the title of Arch-Mage, a magic-user may choose to join
the Council of the Nine. If a character wishes to join the White Robes within
the Council, there must be a position vacant. If so, all Council Members must 
meet and vote on the matter of the mages appointment. A majority for the Arch-
Mage indicates success for the applicant.
	 Grey Robed Arch-Mage wishing to join  the Council must approach only 
the 3 present Grey Robed Council members. From nine straws (representing all 
positions on the Council ) the four mages must choose one. A short straw chosen 
by a current Grey Robes indicates that he must stand down from his position, 
and resign, the applicant then taking the Arch-Mages place on the Council. A 
short straw draw by the applicant results in that mage being unable to apply 
again for at least another 10 years.
	Because the Black Robes believe in the laws of  the survival of the 
fittest, an Arch-Mage wishing to become a Council Member must approach the 
entire bench of the Council and make his intensions of becoming a member 
clear and known. If within the next 9 weeks a present Council Member dies, 
he will be replaced by the applicant. Otherwise, a Black Robes may ask for 
trial by combat. If within the combat one of the present Black Robes dies,
(if the applicant also dies after this occurs he is immediately disqualified.) 
the applicant takes his place on the Council. 
	Once a member of the Council of the Nine an Arch-Mage is given a magical 
robe that is their symbol of office. The oldest of these robes is was worn by
Archmagus Ekimthanis Llore, and is believed to be atleast 100,000 years old. 
Each robe is the colour of the wearer's alignment; white, black or grey; and 
have magical runes empowered on them. These are 'prismatic' runes (see 
Prismatic Sphere q.v. although the sphere is moves with the wearer) that not 
only protect the wearer as each runes is activated according to the desire of 
the mage, but also fire beams of light at any one attacker, performing the same 
powers as if they passed through a 'prismatic wall' q.v. The effects of these
prismatic runs of protection, once activated, will last for 25 turns. Each rune 
can be activated but once per day. The robes also confer 50% magical resistance 
to spell, and spell like attacks, to the wearer. This protection also includes 
psionic attacks that are spell-like in nature. 


The Guardians of Magic
	Three mortals were chosen by the during the Second Age of Magic to 
determine the fate of Magic in the realms of Magia. Now, their influence can 
be seen in the night sky; the three moons - Majaan, Acipter, and Zentrani. 
When any wizard casts a spell, be he Street Mage of other, these god-like 
beings know of it. They watch from the heavens, protecting the laws of magic 
as the All-God has proclaimed. 
	When the moons wax and wane the influence of these powerful mages can 
be felt on Magia itself. Acipter is the guardian of good magic, Majaan of the 
neutrals magics on magia, and Zentrani is guardian of the evil magics that 
surround the realms. They even affect those bestowed with lycanthropy. No 
longer is there one moon that determines the fate of those with the cursing 
or blessing of the animal magical animal spirit. The lycanthropes alignment 
determines which moon also affects his shape shifting.
	Each phase of the moons has the following effect on those of the same 
alignment who wield magic.

The Street Mage.
	Renegades pose the greatest threat to organised magic in the realms of 
agia. In such instances those are known as the Street Mages; a powerful sect 
of wizards who, for once reason or another, refuse to join the robes of their
alignment, preferring to wear robes of their own design. With the knowledge of 
the Laws of Magic, and the environmental effects suffered by other  primes, 
one sees the seriousness of this crime. 
	These mages do not meet as groups. They are individuals and shun those 
mages who wear the white, black and grey robes. Very few Street Mages acquire
apprentices. Fewer Street mages survive beyond medium levels without either 
being captured, killed, or fleeing Magia.
	A follower of the Robes of Magic, meeting a Street Mage, will attempt 
to bring him to the Council for trial. This trial assesses the damage done 
by the individual to magic, its abuse, and its non-governed practice. White 
robes will attempt to bring Street Mages back alive. Black robes will kill 
them if they cannot. Grey Robes will do either.
	Street Mages are therefore forced to practice their art undercover, 
and are forced to become masters of disguise and deception. 

Disadvantages
	A Street Mage, due to his casting of magic that does not align with 
his psyche often suffers alignment shifts. Every time a Street mage casts a 
spell outside his alignment there is a 5% chance per level of the spell that 
his alignment will shift. If the spell in question matches more than one 
alignment (not corresponding to the wizards) then the shift is random.
	In some realms, like Athas, the environment has been destroyed by misuse 
of magic and other catastrophes. The Council of the Nine fear that this fate 
will also befall Magia if Street Mages continue to practice their magic 
without regard to their alignment.
	Thus, another side effect of a Street Mages magic is thought to be a 
slow degradation of the space-magic fabric that binds all living things. When 
casting a spell, there is a 1% chance per level that visible environmental 
damage has occurred. Usually, this is something simple, like grass withering, 
or the death of other nearby  flora and/or fauna. 	
	Other occasions, at the furthest extreme, have seen Street Mages cause increased cloud cover, degradation of the ozone layer above the specified 
region, increase in temperature for miles, evaporation of water in large 
quantities, and even soil degradation. A creative DM will allocate catastrophes 
as he deems necessary.

Captured Street Mages
	It is extremely rare that a Street Mage will ever advance past mid 
levels. If he does, he will usually advance to levels where he can find a 
way to live away from the prime of Magia, and away from the council's grasp. 
Even if found later on another plane of existence he can still be brought to 
trial. Some wizards have thought to escape the wrath of the council by even 
travelling to other worlds, like Athas or Oerth. Much to their dismay, they
have been brought back to trial by bounty hunters from Magia, with the 
cooperation of the local authorities.


(c) Angel, 1996. For the Magia Campaign World (tm).
